Basic Features of PC Hardware (Lesson 1)

1. System Board (Motherboard)
- Main component of a system unit that contains the slots for major components of a system unit such as processor, memory, expansion slots and more.
- The motherboard contains slots and connectors that provide housing to initialize hardware components to be utilized by the system board. These slots and connectors include the CPU socket, Ram slots, SATA connectors for SATA drives (HDD, 2.5 inch HDD, or 2.5 inch SSD), Chipset, power connectors, expansion slots (PCIe), and input or output ports (display ports, audio ports, usb) (I/O Ports).

research: cpu sockets, chipsets, bios and uefi chip, non volatile memory 

A. CPU Sockets 
- CPU Sockets are the housing at which the processor is placed. It usually has pins that connect to the processor (or holes that the pins of a processor stick into) that transfer power and data to the processor to work and for those data to be processed, stored, or executed. 
- Depending on the socket, these pins or holes have pin configuration with each pin or hole performing some type of function depending on the architecture of the processor or the cpu socket of the motherboard.
- Zero Insertion Force (ZIF): Principle added to sockets of IC and cpu sockets of processors on motherboards where in little to no force is needed in order to insert those components to be utilized by a system unit. ZIF na mismo ung mga cpu sockets. Ung may mga latches and all. Regardless of type of cpu socket, naka ZIF na yan kaagad.

a. Land Grid Array ZIF Socket (LGA)
- The LGA Socket is a CPU socket where the sockets itself has pins integrated to them. With this architecture, the processor has holes that land on those pins upon contact in order for conduction to happen and each of those pins to perform their specified function. Because of this, motherboards that have a LGA cpu socket are much more expensive.

b. Pin Grid Array ZIF Socket ZIF (PGA)
- This socket is the reverse of the LGA. Pins are on the processor and the holds for which the pins of the processor lands on are integrated on the cpu socket. Costs of the motherboards with this cpu socket is much more cheaper.

c. Ball Grid Array (BGA)
- Not cuztomizeable. CPU is soldered to the motherboard. Usually utilized for laptops, gaming consoles, phones and ARM processors.

B. CPU Sockets Pin Configuration 
- Depending on the CPU Socket (May vary between brand and model), different pins do different functions. In this section, all pin function designations will be discussed and some cpu socket pin configurations will be provided for reference.

a. Pin Functions:

From AMD Socket FM1 (https://en.wikichip.org/wiki/amd/packages/socket_fm1):

I. Alert_L- This pin is utilized by the processor in order to monitor system (more specifically processor temperatures) using the Sideband Temperature Sensor Interface (SB-TSI). The Alert_L pin is active low, meaning that when it is not needed, it is constantly feeded with voltage but due to pull-up resistor, no current flows, so it essential does not draw any power (Acts like an open switch). When SB-TSI detects that temperatures exceed its set threshold, it activates the Alert_L pin and goes active. Since it os active low, when pin is activated, a transistor overrides the pull-up resistor and the circuit goes to Gnd, making the pin output 0v, signaling the system that it has exceeded normal temps and corrective measures are executed to mitigate temperatures.

i. Sideband Temperature Sensor Interface (SB-TSI)- Sensor interface that utilizes thermal diodes in a cpu socket to monitor temperatures and send an alert signal to the Alert_L pin to apply corrective measures. Usually, the threshold set by this interface is 100 degrees Celcius.

II. CLKIN_H & CLKIN_L (Clock in High and Low)- is the built in Differential Clock where in it is the  reference clock of the processor. Instead of Crystal Oscillators, the CLKIN_H and CLKIN_L are the base clock speed of the processor in which each pulse is an equalized signal because of its nature of being a differential clock. Instead of a normal clock pulse where in it only sends a positive signal, the clkin high and clckin low synchronizes each of their pulses to one another. Clkin high sends a positve pulse equal to the negative pulse of the clkin low. Because each of their pulses are of the same voltage, their clock pulses when they synchronized are equalized and balanced making it a better method of utilizing clock pulses. Afterwards, the Phase Locked Loop (PLL) of the processor multiplies the base clock speed of the clkin_h and clkin_l to determine the actual clock speed of the processor. The following are some definition of terms to further understand how CLKIN_H and CLKIN_L works:

i. Crystal Oscillator- Is a component in a system that when provided with voltage and current, sends out electrical pulses with a fixed voltage and frequency. The Crystal Oscillator in this context becomes the clock of the system.

ii. Phase Locked Loop (PLL)- a system within a processor that takes the input pulses of a crustal oscillator or differential clock then multiplies its frequency and locks it to that frequency. Because of the PLL, its output becomes the actual clock speed of a processor.

III. DBGREQ_L and DBGRDY- Are pins utilized for debugging the state and functions of its respective processor. DBGREQ_L (Debug Request, Active Low) is an active low pin while DBGRDY (Debug Ready) is an active high pin. When an application software/system software/external hardware wants to check the diagnostics or debug something in the processor, that software or hardware requests a debug to the processor through the DBGREQ_L (which goes 0 or low when activated). This halts executions in the processor and when everything is ready, DBGRDY activates (high) prompting the software/external hardware that debugging the processor can now be executed.

IV. DISP_CLKIN_H/L- The DISP_CLKIN_H/L (Display Clock In High and Display Clock In Low) Functions just like the CLKIN_H and CLKIN_L which has a reference clock which is multiplied by the PLL and utilized by the system unit. In this case however, the clock pulses are utilized by the System Unit's Display Controller, hence the Display in its name. The following is how it works. The DISP_CLKIN_H/L pin generates a base differential pulse (balanced pulse). The PLL multiplies this base clock as usual but since this pin is made to be utilized by the system unit's display controller exclusively, the display controller produces or converts these raw pulses into pixel clock pulses that determine how fast each pulse will show on a given output display (e.g. monitor). The display controller reads each pixel generated by the GPU (or CPU if integrated graphics) and every pixel clock pulse, these pixels are then sent from the VRAM where these colored pixels are created into the Display Port (e.g. VGA or HDMI). Afterwards, these are displayed to an actual display (e.g. Monitor) where in these pixels are refreshed based from the monitors refresh rate which is synchronized by the pixel clocks generated by the system unit's display controller which are all derived from the pulses of the DISP_CLKIN_H/L. This is further proven by OLED monitors where each pixel in that display open and close based on its refresh rate synchronizing with each pixel clock (pulse) which move too fast enough that users do not notice its flickering (although noticeable when videoed). The following are the description of other components and concepts that utilize the DISP_CLKIN_H/L pin:

i. Display Controller- is the components within a CPU or a GPU that manages (generates pixel clocks, produces and read from VRAM) its generated pixels. Utilizing the clock pulses from the DISP_CLKIN_H/L pin, it functions according to the pixel clock pulses it generates to generate pixels, read pixels from VRAM and send these pixels into the display port for image displaying on an external display according to its pixel clock pulse.

ii. Pixel Clock- The pixel clock is the clock pulse that is produced by the display controller which is the reference on how fast pixels generated by it or stored in the VRAM travel and show to an external display. These pixel clocks are generated in accordance to the specifications needed by the external display in order to time the showing of pixels in the display to the refresh rate of the external display. Kumbaga, the display controller does not uses by the clock pulses outputted by the PLL because the PLL does not take into consideration the display specifications ng connected external display. Gumagawa lang siya ng clock pulses to be utilized by components ng system. And yan ung trabaho ng display controller, to create pixel clocks to create clock pulses that is in accordance sa external display. 

V. DMAACTIVE_L- An Active low pin that tells the CPU and Northbridge (on old motherboards) that DMA is occurring and the current P-STATE should be locked and shouldn't be changed to prevent data loss/data corruption. With that in mind, how does the P-state of the Northbridge/CPU corrupt data? When changing Performance states (usually when a game is closed and CPU utilization drastically decreases leading to lots of idle stuff), the Pstate will change to from low to high (high frequency and voltage to low). When DMA is occurring, the northbridge is involved and since there is a change in clock frequency and voltage changes, the timing that data transfer originally synchronized to (the clock speed of the ram northbridge) will not be adjusted since DMA frequency is fixed. Furthermore, due to a change of pstates, voltage changes will have different 100101010101 shit which could lead to data loss or checksum errors since machine code is just 1 and 0s

i. Direct Memory Access (DMA)- It is a technology that prevents the CPU to read and write data from various system unit components into the RAM. This technology directly connects tasks and data transfers from system unit components to the RAM in order for the CPU to focus on other priority tasks instead. 

ii. Performance States (P-States)- Is the power level of the CPU and the northbridge (for older mobos). The P-state is indirectly proportional to the power of the CPU/Northbridge that it needs. For example, if the CPU is busy, it needs a low P-state (high clock speed, high voltage requirement. If the CPU or northbridge has lots of idle processes, it requires a high P-state (low frequency, low voltage requirement). 

VI. DP0/DP1/DP2/DP3/DP4/DP5_AUXP/N- This is the pin that manages the Auxiliary (AUX) function of the system unit's display port. Display Port Auxiliary is a low bandwitdth, bi-directional pin and lane that helps initialize an external display to a system unit's video related hardware. How do these work essentially? The DP_AUXP/N pins and lanes connect directly to the display ports where the external displays are connected. When that happens, auxiliary data (EDID and DPCD) from the external display flows from it into the dp aux lanes into the cpu and gpu in order to identify the specifications and capabilities of that external display. That data travels at 1 mbps, hence being a low bandwidth pin. Afterwards, GPU sends commands in order to initialize that external display to work properly to the hardware components of the system unit that are related to video generation hence the pin being "bi-directional." The reason as to why there are many DPs is because each dp represents a monitor. This means that given the mobo, it can support to 5 external displays at the same time. The pin also manages the pstates of hardware video components. When a monitor is closed, the pstates change to high in order to lower voltage utilization, saving performance for other tasks instead.

i. Extended Display Identification Data (EDID)- Small data file that travels in the DP_AUX lanes and pins that contains information about an external display's specifications.

ii. DisplayPort Configuration Data (DPCD)- Data file full of commands that help system unit video components to initialize the external display in question.

VII. DP0/DP1/DP2/DP3/DP4/DP5_HPD- The Display Port Hot Plug Detect simply detects if an external display is on or off. There are multiple of those since they correspond to the number of monitors connected (which is only 5). When an external display is connected and is initially off, DPn_HPD is low and the DPn_AUXP/N is low as well. When an external display goes on, the pin goes high and tells the DPn_AUXP/N that an external display is open and the aforementioned pin does its function of transfering EDID and DPCD to initialize the external display.

i. Hot Plug Detect (HPD)- Is the actual technology behind the DPn_HPD that detects when an external display is open or off state.

VIII. DP0/DP1_TXP/N- The Display Port Transmitter Positive and Negative are the pins that transmits pixel data into the monitor. They work with the display controller.