Minutes of the Meeting- 04-21-2025

Agenda 1: Discussion of Back-End Connection to Front-End
- Lian Pacis started and led the meeting and discussed how to connect different parts of the back-end to the currently formulated front-end utilizing the finished bar chart as an example for the group.
- It was explained the different python files that contains front-end elements are not to be editted as the only module to be changed for back-end connection to the front-end is the StatEase.py itself.
- Lian Pacis also stated how the results of the graph are shown to STATEASE.py by simply "stacking" the graph of matplotlib onto a widget with the same dimensions set upon by the formulated PyQt Front-End
- Details with regards on how text, float and interger results from the back-end calculation are to be outputted in the StatEase.py through the utlilization of imports, list comprehensions, .split() functions (depending on the condition set upon by the developer), and more.
- Error checking through the utilization of try except, wtih a suggestion by Lian Pacis that error dialogs are better if they are shown in a separated window and done through an external .py file to be imported to StatEase.py.
- Lian Pacis reminded the group if there is an easier way for members to connect their respective back-end modules to the StatEase.py front-end, they are free to do so as long as no conflicts occur with respect to other modules currently present in the program.
- The deadline for the task of connecting the back-end to the current front-end is until May 1, 2025; 11:59pm.

Agenda 2: GitHub Reminders
- Lian Pacis reminded the group of the updated GitHub repository to be utilized by the group. Lian stated that the repository would be utilized for him to see the all of the members' progresses with regards to the current task. 
- The newly updated repo would also be utilized in order to merge the work of all group members. Lian instructed that each member has their own respective branch in which each of the group members must ONLY access. The group members will upload (push) their progress on their respective branch. Lian will then append the changes made by the group to his own branch and after validation and testing will it then be merged to the main branch.

Agenda 3: Miscellaneous Reminders
- Lian Pacis reminded that if there are any complications with regards to members accomplishing their task, do not hesitate to contact the group members for assistance. Lian also gave emphasis to seeking assistance before the set deadline.