# Input
- Find the input class ng statistical tool mo sa StatEase.py. Halimbawa for the bar chart, ung class niya dun for handling inputs is BarChart.
  
- Ung actual python file ng GUI ng input should be separated on another file. In the case of class BarChart, the python file for the GUI for the bar chart input is called BarChart.py. In StatEase.py, this file was imported through the code "from Descriptive.bar_chart.BarChart import Ui_BARCHART" so that its methods can be utilized by StatEase.py.
  
- Make an instance of the main class of the GUI input python file. (self.ui= Ui_BARCHART())
  
- Using the instance of the main class of the GUI input python file, call out the method generated by PyQt that sets up the front end part of the input (in the case of bar chart module, self.ui.setupui(self)).

	## Important Note:
	- If you have 2 classes, lets say class Joseph() and class Mama(), and in class Joseph() you have an object called self.hello= int(2). In class Mama(), you created an instance of class Joseph() called self.ui= Joseph(). In order to access the interger 2 from class Joseph(), you must do this:
	  
	- self.ui.hello. self.ui is the instance of class Joseph which contains the interger 2. Since interger 2 is in the self parameter, it can be accessed anywhere as long as the class within it is in an instance. Hence self.ui.hello (hello being the container of interger 2).

- Ito na ung mismong part ng connecting. Make another method for connecting the inputs from your separate GUI python input to StatEase.py. In the case of the bar chart, self.ui.barcategories.text is stored in categories_text through the line of code "categories_text = self.ui.barcategories.text()". 

- The text() method from the QLineEdit class in PyQt helps in acquiring the actual input of the user stored in both self.barcategories and self.barvalues in BarChart.py. 

	## Input Error Checking:
	- 

