GEC 3 Script

A well afternoon to you Ma'am Diano, as well as my fellow researchers in BETCPET Sections 2A and 2B. I am here to present my drawing of what constitutes the symbolism of peace. 

"After forty days Noah opened a window he had made in the ark and sent out a raven, and it kept flying back and forth until the water had dried up from the earth. Then he sent out a dove to see if the water had receded from the surface of the ground. But the dove could find nowhere to perch because there was water over all the surface of the earth; so it returned to Noah in the ark. He waited seven more days and again sent out the dove from the ark. When the dove returned to him in the evening, there in its beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf!" The following verse comes from the bible in the book of genesis, chapter 8, verses 6-11. From this verse alone, we can surmise that the dove has always been a symbol of hope, peace, and the promise of a better tomorrow. Albert Camus, an absurdist philosopher, expounds upon this notion saying, "A dove's flight whispers the language of peace." 

Albert Camus was a French philosopher which followed absurdism and existentialism which was found on his works. In his writings, Albert Camus gave emphasis to the isolation of man in an alien universe, the estrangement of the individual from themselves, and the finality of death. Despite this, due to to his absurdist views, he also reflected on truth, the potential of meaning, and peace. "A dove's flight whispers the language of peace", referenced from his essay The Almond Trees, tells us that just like the dove, humanity can generate great ideas as gently as doves to spread peace in our world. The humble drawing that I have made is a downscaled visual interpretation of that quote. As you can see, the dove with the olive branches below represent the peace and the potential of greater peace reserved for all of us. The three stars below represents three elements of peace by Immanuel Kant that should be referenced by global communities. The following elements are found in his work "Perpetual peace: A Philosophical Sketch" which are as follows, Replublican Constitutions, Federation of Free States, and Universal Hospitality. Moving on, the yellow circle emerging behind the dove represents the ever-growing influence of peace. Lastly, the shade of blue in the background equates to the boundless sea the dove is navigating on, hopefully clinging to the idea of peace.

As someone who follows world geopolitics closely, my sentiments on absolute peace is pessimistic at most. Humans are subjective creatures. Our impulses would always be resonated from our emotions and our "id". From the words of Simon Blackburn from his book, "Think", "A lot of life is indeed a matter of raising more hogs, to buy more land, so we can raise more hogs, so that we can buy more land." As such, as creatures who create their own problems due to these factors, we would never escape destruction from our own hand. We would always find a way, impulsively or by accident, to cause harm. But who knows? I might be underestimating the ability of humanity for peace. And if that might be the case, I would love to see the day when it truly comes.